This morning,
we’re going to look at this question:
What price are you willing to pay?
In today’s text at Mark 10:29, 30,
Jesus made it clear that when a person
chooses to follow him,
he or she might have to give up some things,
including family relationships at times.
As we know, this sometimes happens
when a person accepts the truth
and then his or her family
rejects the message
and perhaps even him or her as a result.
When this happens, as painful as it is,
a sincere person will choose
to stand firmly on Jehovah’s side.
In fact, we’ll give up whatever we must
in order to serve him faithfully.
True?
So, what have you paid?
It’s good for us
to consider what we’re willing
to do for Jehovah and his Son.
They will bless us many times over
if we remain committed
to following Jesus’ example.
And that’s the point of today’s text.
The fact is that many
of our brothers and sisters
continue to serve Jehovah faithfully,
despite having only a few family members
or perhaps no family members
serving Jehovah along with them.
At the same time,
others may have generations of relatives
who have served God,
and we rejoice with them
because they too
are serving Jehovah faithfully.
The fact is that circumstances often affect
what a person may have to leave behind
or give up at times.
Jesus certainly knew that would be the case,
and that’s why he said what he did.
But no matter what we must endure,
Jehovah and his Son will prove true
to the promise there in Mark chapter 10.
It guarantees a hundredfold blessing
for those who are loyal and everlasting life.
What should that promise move us to do?
We should be moved
to continue sacrificing whatever is needed
in order to continue doing God’s will.
That should be our prime motivation.
We’re moved by faith and love
to serve Jehovah
because he’s so kind and he’s so generous.
And we remember that he too
has sacrificed much for us.
Moved by faith, we refuse
to become like Demas who, you’ll recall,
abandoned the apostle Paul
when things got difficult, didn’t he?
Demas looked back at the things behind,
and he lost sight of this point:
It’s what we give
and what we’re willing to give up
in order to be loyal
that matters to Jehovah.
What we give and what we give up
says a lot about who we really are.
So while what each of us
may have to give or give up
at times will vary,
Jehovah will kindly give us more in return
than we can ever imagine.
Again, Jesus said at Mark 10:30
“100 times more,” so to speak.
When we keep that in mind,
we’ll be helped to remain focused
on Jesus’ promise in today’s text.
Jesus himself
remained focused on such words.
For example, when his half brothers
did not put faith in him at first,
how did Jesus deal with that disappointment?
He never compromised
his commitment to Jehovah’s work
just to please others, even family.
At one point, Jesus said:
“Woe whenever all men speak well of you.”
Jesus knew that those who try
to please everyone in the world
while serving Jehovah
always end up compromising their integrity.
Jesus kept his integrity
because he refused to be preoccupied
with what other people thought of him.
He was always most concerned
with pleasing his heavenly Father.
What was an added benefit that resulted
from Jesus’ faithful course?
The Scriptures tell us that his half brothers
eventually responded favorably,
especially, it seems,
after witnessing the events
involved with his death and resurrection.
Their view of Jesus and his teachings
changed quickly when the right time arrived.
Now, let’s put all this together
into a very specific context
for many who are listening.
Many of you have unbelieving family members,
perhaps even your parents
are not serving Jehovah along with you,
and this may be true for many years.
What can you do to remain hopeful
toward such family members,
even though the time is short?
The answer?
Follow Jesus’ example.
Like Jesus, never give up on them.
Yet, never compromise
in your service to Jehovah
just to please them.
Keep setting a good example for them
to see and to remember.
As Jesus said at Matthew 5:16,
you’ll note he said there:
“Let your light shine before men,
“so that they may see your fine works
and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
What do others,
including unbelieving relatives, see
when they look at us?
Do they see that we’re facing
the future with confidence
and that our faith is strong?
We build up our faith
by praying for more of it every day
and by being absorbed
in God’s Word every day.
Those who may be starting
to lean the right way
will see this in us.
They will see that our faith
is backed up by works.
In turn,
they may lean even more
in the right direction.
We need to think about that since,
as the saying goes,
our example may speak louder than words.
Or as Jesus said,
let them “see your fine works
and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
Still, realistically,
we may continue to have some worry
about our non-Witness family members.
We think about them because we love them.
We’re concerned that they may not respond
to the good news in time.
We worry about that.
When such concerns
come up into your mind and heart,
remember this:
Just as eventually happened
with Jesus’ half brothers,
Jehovah can turn a heart very quickly
when it is leaning the right way.
Jehovah knows the leaning
of every person on earth.
Jesus knows this too,
and he sees every potential sheeplike one.
With a positive view then,
continue helping your family members
to lean the right way,
and then leave the matter
in Jehovah’s hands.
Keep trusting
that he will draw them to himself
if their heart condition is right.
Experience shows
that sheeplike ones tend to run in families.
We’ll repeat that: Experience shows
This has proven to be true
over and over again.
So remain patient and hopeful toward them.
But what if your family members
never respond?
That could happen.
Well, if that’s the case,
keep in mind
that Jehovah knows
what you’ve tried to do,
and he will bless you forever for trying.
So in review,
what price are you willing to pay?
If we’re following Jesus’ example,
we’ll stand firmly on the side of the truth
and never allow anything to pull us away,
even at great cost to ourselves,
even if it involves family relationships.
When we keep our integrity,
our example may move someone else
to lean the right way
and the direction that Jehovah
may draw him or her.
If we’re willing to sacrifice much
in order to follow Jesus,
what did he promise?
A hundredfold blessing,
which today involves
our international brotherhood
—the only true brotherhood on earth.
Along with this, he promised
that in the coming system of things,
his self-sacrificing followers
will receive everlasting life.